# Smart-Home-system
The pervasive computing project aims to develop a solution for remote smart control. The purpose is to control embedded electronic circuits using a mobile application. The main objectives are Seamless Connectivity, Remote Control, and Real-time Monitoring.
System description:
The remote smart control project consists of a digitally controlled interface between an embedded system comprising a microcontroller, a wireless integrated module, and environmental sensors. This system should make a connection over Wifi and send and receive data to a monitoring system on a mobile application. Also, it has a feature to control some parts of the system remotely from the mobile application. The data is stored in the cloud (firebase) and cached by both the microcontroller and mobile application through SQL lite. You need to design and implement one of the following three embedded systems and integrate it into the mobile application:
Enables users to remotely control and manage various devices and systems within their homes using a smartphone:
Feature 1: Temperature: Measure the room temperature through a temperature sensor, upload the value on the cloud (firebase database), and then view it on the mobile application through an activity (e.g. Temperature Activity).
Feature2: Password: Create a password for your home through the mobile application, and store it on the cloud. The microcontroller’s connected keypad uses it to open the home lock (door) if it is entered correctly.
Feature 3: Light: A Boolean value is sent through the mobile application to the microcontroller to control and turn on/off an LED. The Boolean value is captured through a button on the mobile application’s interface and stored on the cloud.
Feature 4: Fan: A Boolean value is sent through the mobile application to the microcontroller to control and turn on/off a fan motor. The Boolean value is captured through a button on the mobile application’s interface and stored on the cloud.
Feature 5: Entry Attack: Detect a person passing through the home border (ultrasonic sensor connected to the microcontroller), and set a variable called “alert” by true on the cloud, on the Arduino side you implement a value change listener on that variable if it’s true you send notification alert to android. The variable's value is changed to false only when a password is entered correctly. A “We are Safe”, or “We are at Risk!” message is displayed on the mobile application’ interface based on the value of the variable.
Feature 6 (Bonus): Message: A message is entered by the mobile application (e.g. Message Activity), stored on the cloud, and cashed by the microcontroller from the cloud to be displayed on LCD, for example, “Welcome Mohamed!”. 
